Book cloth is fabric that is backed with a surface which makes it easier to adhere
to book covers. Not every type of material needs this backing,
but most thin or cotton fabrics do.
If you search "book cloth" you can find it for sale online or in some
specialty stores.
Or you can make your own...
In this tutorial, I'll show you a way to make your own book cloth.
This will make the process of gluing fabric onto your board much easier,
preventing air bubbles or wrinkles and glue seeping through.
What you'll need is an iron,
tissue paper
and HeatnBond UltraHold iron-on adhesive.
The HeatnBond UltraHold can be found at a fabric store or you can find it for sale online.
First off, don't do this method on your cutting mat!
The heat from the iron will ruin your cutting mat.
Start with fabric that is fairly wrinkle-free.
Iron it it flat if you need to.
Cut the HeatnBond a little smaller than your piece of fabric,
so you have a border. This gives you an area to handle the fabric and prevents the HeatnBond
sticky side from being on the edges.
Set your iron to medium heat.
On your ironing board or table, place the fabric face down and iron the HeatnBond with the rough side down.
Iron each area for about 8 seconds.
Then peel the top layer off.
Now take the tissue paper,
and iron it on until you see the full shape of the HeatnBond.
Then cut the excess tissue paper off.
It doesn't have to be cut perfectly, because the border will eventually
be cut off when you use it to make a book cover.
I've tried a few methods on making book cloth, and I have to say,
this one is by far the easiest and has the best results.
Now that you can prepare fabric for bookbinding and make your own book cloth,
you'll have even more cover design options to choose from.
I hope you found this tutorial helpful.
Feel free to "Like" and leave your comments below.
For more tutorials, be sure to subscribe and check out my channel.
You can also follow more Sea Lemon on the links listed in the "About" section below.